doc: release blog for Notation RC-7 (#264)
notaryproject/notaryproject.dev: content/en/blog/2023/announcing-notation-rc6.md

---
title: Notation v1.0.0-RC.6 is available!
author:  "Notation Release Team"
date: 2023-05-26
draft: false
---

The Notation maintainers are pleased to announce the releases of [Notation CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) v1.0.0-rc.6, [notation-go library](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) v1.0.0-rc.6, and [notation-core-go library](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) v1.0.0-rc.4. This blog walks you through the updates in this release.

## What's new

This release adds the following major changes:

- TODO Add security CVEs

> - Notation commands support reading docker credentials if credentials store is not installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Notation commands support reading Docker credentials if the credentials store is not configured
```

Reviewer: See https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#configure-the-credentials-store

- Flag `--plain-http` was renamed to `--insecure-registry`

Other changes:

- Improved error messages
- Bug fixes
- Updated dependencies

### Notation commands support reading docker credentials if credentials store is not installed

> Users are required to provide credentials to authenticate with OCI-compliant registries. As a security best practice, it is highly recommended that users configure a credentials store to securely store their credentials, especially in production environments. However, there may be cases where a credentials store is not configured, such as in a test environment. If none of credentials stores are present, docker stores the credentials in the config files by default, see [reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#default-behavior). With the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.6, notation commands now support reading credentials from the Docker config file if a credentials store is not installed. If users have successfully logged in using `docker login`, they can use the `notation sign` command to sign container images without the need to use `notation login` first. The same solution applies to other commands `notation verify`, `notation ls` and `notation inspect`. For example,

Author: Accepted all the comments except keeping this link https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#default-behavior, which is used to explain the default behavior if credentials store is no present.

```console
# credentials store is not installed
docker login <Registry>
notation sign --key <key_name> <image>
notation ls <image>
notation inspect <image>
notation verify <image>
```

If credentials store is present, users can use either `docker login` or `notation login` for authentication with registries. See the [guide](https://notaryproject.dev/docs/how-to/registry-authentication/) for other authentication methods.

### Flag `--plain-http` was renamed to `--insecure-registry`

The original flag `--plain-http` and its description did not emphasize that it is an insecure way to connect to the registry, and it should only be used for testing purposes. With updated description and the name changed to `--insecure-registry`, it is now more intuitive and emphasized for users to understand the usage of this flag. Other than the name change, there is no difference between the two flags.

## Credits

> We would like to specially thank the Notary maintainers, contributors, and the broader Notary community for helping us throughout the release process with timely feedback, reviews, community testing and for all your support to help ensure a timely release. Sending credits to the following contributors who made great contributions to Notation RC.4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to specially thank the Notary maintainers, contributors, and the broader Notary community for helping us throughout the release process with timely feedback, reviews, and testing and for all your support to help ensure a timely release. Sending credits to the following contributors who made great contributions to Notation v1.0.0-RC.6.
```

---
title: Notation v1.0.0-RC.7 is available!
author:  "Notation Release Team"
date: 2023-05-28
draft: false
---

> The Notation maintainers are pleased to announce the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.7, including [Notation CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) v1.0.0-rc.7, [notation-go library](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) v1.0.0-rc.6, and [notation-core-go library](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) v1.0.0-rc.4. This blog walks you through the updates in this release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Notation maintainers are pleased to announce the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.7, including [Notation CLI](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation) v1.0.0-rc.7, [notation-go library](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go) v1.0.0-rc.6, and [notation-core-go library](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go) v1.0.0-rc.4. This blog walks you through the updates in this release.
```

Should we link directly to the releases - https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.4

> NOTE: Both Notation CLI v1.0.0-rc.7 and v1.0.0-rc.6 have the same functionalities. However, v1.0.0-rc.7 included an additional fix for an E2E test case.

## What's new

This release adds the following major changes:

> - Fix security advisories

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Security advisory fixes
```

Also should we call out the list of advisisories?

Reviewer: @yizha1 Let's add advisories in a follow-up PR.

- Notation commands support reading Docker credentials if the [credentials store](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#configure-the-credentials-store) is not configured
- Renamed `--plain-http` to `--insecure-registry`, which should be used only for testing

Other changes:

- Improved error messages
- Bug fixes
- Updated dependencies

### Notation commands support reading docker credentials if credentials store is not installed

> Users are required to provide credentials to authenticate with OCI-compliant registries. As a security best practice, it is highly recommended that users configure a credentials store to securely store their credentials, especially in production environments. However, there may be cases where a credentials store is not configured, such as in a test environment. If the credentials store is not present, Docker stores the credentials in the config files by default, see [reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#default-behavior). With the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.6, notation commands now support reading credentials from the Docker config file if a credentials store is not installed. If users have successfully logged in using `docker login`, they can use the `notation sign` command to sign container images directly without the need to use `notation login` first. The same solution applies to other commands `notation verify`, `notation ls`, and `notation inspect`. For example,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users may provide credentials to authenticate with OCI-compliant registries. As a security best practice, it is highly recommended that users configure a credentials store to securely store their credentials, especially in production environments. However, there may be cases where a credentials store is not configured, such as in a test environment. If the credentials store is not present, Docker stores the credentials in the config files by default, see [reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#default-behavior). With the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.7, notation commands now support reading credentials from the Docker config file if a credentials store is not installed. If users have successfully logged in using `docker login`, they can use the `notation sign` command to sign container images directly without the need to use `notation login` first. The same solution applies to other commands `notation verify`, `notation ls`, and `notation inspect`. For example,
```

RC6 or 7?

Author: RC.7

> 

Author: @iamsamirzon There is no problem with the scenario described in this blog. It is just `notation login` has a bug. Do you think we still need to add a workaround for `notation login` command?

> 

Reviewer 3: @yizha1  - yes, a workaround/mitigation approach is needed for https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/issues/696 . Moreover, starting with release, we should think about documenting any known issues that users may likely run into, into our release notes.  I am especially interested about IMHO it breaks an existing experience that was working in RC-5, but not anymore in RC-7.

> 

Author: @iamsamirzon please take a look at the updated version of this blog

```console
# credentials store is not installed

> docker login <Registry>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker login <registry>
```

---
title: Notation v1.0.0-RC.7 is available!
author:  "Notation Release Team"
date: 2023-05-28
draft: false
---

The Notation maintainers are pleased to announce the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.7, including [Notation CLI v1.0.0-rc.7](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.7), [notation-go library v1.0.0-rc.6](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.6), and [notation-core-go library v1.0.0-rc.4](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation-core-go/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.4). This blog walks you through the updates in this release.

> NOTE: Both Notation CLI v1.0.0-rc.7 and v1.0.0-rc.6 have the same functionalities. However, v1.0.0-rc.7 included an additional fix for an E2E test case.

## What's new

This release adds the following major changes:

> - Security advisory fixes

Author: @priteshbandi  need your help to publish all the advisories then I can add.

> - Security advisory fixes

Reviewer 4: Lets merge this and when advisories are out we can add them later

> - Notation commands support reading Docker credentials if the [credentials store](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#configure-the-credentials-store) is not configured

Reviewer 4: Notation CLI commands will use [credentials store](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#configure-the-credentials-store)  configured in Docker's config.json when users doesn't specfies it in Notation's config.json

> - Notation commands support reading Docker credentials if the [credentials store](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#configure-the-credentials-store) is not configured

Reviewer 3: I like @priteshbandi  edits better

> - Notation commands support reading Docker credentials if the [credentials store](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#configure-the-credentials-store) is not configured

Author: @iamsamirzon @priteshbandi this is already supported by Notation. The new scenario in this release is to read docker credentials if none of credentials stores are present. In previous release, Notation would fail if none of credential stores are present.  Copied below from [docker document](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#credentials-store) the default behavior that when none of credentials stores are present, what docker will do:

>Default behavior
By default, Docker looks for the native binary on each of the platforms, i.e. “osxkeychain” on macOS, “wincred” on windows, and “pass” on Linux. A special case is that on Linux, Docker will fall back to the “secretservice” binary if it cannot find the “pass” binary. If none of these binaries are present, it stores the credentials (i.e. password) in base64 encoding in the config files described above.

- Renamed `--plain-http` to `--insecure-registry`, which should be used only for testing

Other changes:

- Improved error messages
- Bug fixes
- Updated dependencies

> ### Notation commands support reading docker credentials if credentials store is not installed

Reviewer 3: Should it be more appropriate to say, 
Notation commands support reading docker credentials when an explicit credential store is not configured in Notation

Reviewer 4: Dont we always need a credential store?

Reviewer 5: Storing credentials in plaintext is bad. However, we should not stop notation **reading** those existing plaintext credentials.

Author: @priteshbandi @iamsamirzon Notation never store plain text credentials, but can read plain text credentials from docker config

Reviewer 3: Agree, what is available in Docker Config is a method we can use. But can someone store plaintext credentials in Notation's config.json?

> Users may provide credentials to authenticate with OCI-compliant registries. As a security best practice, it is highly recommended that users configure a credentials store to securely store their credentials, especially in production environments. However, there may be cases where a credentials store is not configured, such as in a test environment. If the credentials store is not present, Docker stores the credentials in the config files by default, see [reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/login/#default-behavior). With the release of Notation v1.0.0-RC.7, notation commands now support reading credentials from the Docker config file if a credentials store is not installed. If users have successfully logged in using `docker login`, they can use the `notation sign` command to sign container images directly without the need to use `notation login` first. The same solution applies to other commands `notation verify`, `notation ls`, and `notation inspect`. For example,

Reviewer 3: My understanding is different. Let me know if you are ok with this instead.

Security best practices recommend that users configure a credentials store to securely manage credentials, especially in production environments. Starting with Notation v1.0.0-RC.7, Notation commands use the following order to find credentials to authenticate with registries. Notation commands first look for credentials in its Notation’s config file, if absent Notation looks for credentials in docker config file, and if even that is not present, Notation uses the operating system default. This way, for users who do not configure explicit credentials in Notation, a successful `docker login`, will enable them to run “notation sign/verify/list/inspect” commands without the need to complete `notation login` first.

Author: Need to add the new scenario: if none of credential stores are present, Notation will read credentials from docker config if users `docker login` successfully.

```console

> # credentials store is not installed

Reviewer 3: Change above to: Notation's config is not present

Author: @iamsamirzon I think the bug caused confusion. This is a new scenario not related to whether Notation's configure is present or not. It is related to none of credential store are present, Notation can read docker credentials now if users `docker login` successfully
